prepare v11.0.0 (#3004)
Open-MSS/MSS: docs/development.rst

Creating a new minor, patch level release
-----------------------------------------

> The stable branch will only receive critical bug fixes, and security patches – ideally with corresponding

Reviewer: -> ideally as a backport from a related fix to the develop branch.

Author: Let’s avoid making it exclusive. Develop is going to have API changes, so it might not be ready for release while we need a critical fix in production stable.  Releasing a new major when we can't do a backport would be preferable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The stable branch will only receive critical bug fixes, and security patches. These patches must either address a bug that is only present on stable, be a backport of a patch that was already merged into develop, or there must simultaneously be a PR addressing the same issue on develop.
```

I want to avoid a situation in which a "quick hotfix" addresses an issue on stable, but no one feels responsible to fix the same issue on develop.

> The stable branch will only receive critical bug fixes, and security patches. These patches must either address a bug that is only present on stable, be a backport of a patch that was already merged into develop, or there must simultaneously be a PR addressing the same issue on develop.

Author: It’s also possible that the code is no longer present in the develop branch.  In other words, the bug is exclusive to stable.
It needs to be clarified in that situation. Ideas how to add that rule?

Reviewer 2: It is already in there:

> These patches must either address a bug that is only present on stable, [...]

> updates to the develop branch.

Author: This sentence doesn't seem finished?

Reviewer 2: Oops, I must have missed deleting that part in my suggestion.

We will review changes for both branches when there is no backport from develop possible.

For a new minor/patch release

* make sure all issues for this milestone are closed or moved to the next milestone
* update CHANGES.rst, based on git log
* check version number of upcoming release in pyproject.toml
* verify that pyproject.toml, MANIFEST.in are complete
* Update the version in the lock file by `pixi lock`
* tag the release::

   git tag -s -m "tagged/signed release X.Y.Z" X.Y.Z
   git push origin X.Y.Z

* write a release information on https://github.com/Open-MSS/MSS/releases
* create a release on anaconda conda-forge
* announce on:

  * Mailing list
  * Mastodon (follow https://fosstodon.org/@MSS)

> Creating a new release

Reviewer: This list seems less complete than the list of AIs for the minor release above?

Author: After making minor or patch-level changes, we can release directly from the stable branch without needing to rename it. (tag, release)

For a new major release I need to rename the existing stable on github and create it from the develop branch (git branch stable). The major difference is the rename.

* check version number of upcoming release in pyproject.toml
* verify that pyproject.toml, MANIFEST.in are complete
* Update the version in the lock file by `pixi lock`

> * for a new major release rename the existing stable branch to oldstable and recreate it from the develop branch

Reviewer: I am not sure what purpose the "oldstable" branch serves. Instead:
* Ensure that the latest commit of stable is released and tag'ged accordingly.
?

Author: I’m not entirely sure how our branch protection will behave until I test it with our setup, or whether any adjustments are needed.  I'd like to avoid reconfiguring it repeatedly. So, I can rename branches – for instance, renaming 'stable' to 'oldstable'. If something goes wrong, I still have the original ‘stable’ branch and its configuration as a backup since it was just renamed. That allows me to try another approach. 'oldstable' is a temporary placeholder until 'stable' is working correctly with releases.

Once that’s done, I can document the process for inclusion in our next patch level release.

Reviewer 2: > If something goes wrong, I still have the original ‘stable’ branch and its configuration as a backup since it was just renamed.

There is nothing special about a branch compared to a tag, except for the general convention that tags are treated as immutable (though technically they are not). If the latest commit of stable is released and tagged you can always recreate it from that.

Author: I know. but it is a step more. 
It’ll probably all work fine if I rename the branch rules branch to ‘oldstable’, and then rename or delete ‘stable’ before creating a “new” stable version. After that, I'll rename the rules back.  I'm just a little carefully of it right now, which isn't a bad thing.
